What is git and why is git ? 
version control system 
Git is primarily content-addressable filesystem with a VCS user interface written on top of it.

How to check whether git got installed and which version you have it ? 
c. git status - to see the status of various files in the current branch , status shows whetehr any files are untracked
    or branch is upto date.  
info: Branches are pointers to specific commit -- nothing more.  Hence branch ealy and branch often
c. git --version 
c. git log - shows commits detailed info
c. git log --oneline    -shows commits reference number and message
c. git log branch1 ..branch2 --oneline    - t checks if branch1 is "missing" any commits present in branch2
                                            in normal workflow we never check if two local branches are uptodate since we push to remote and checks w.r.t to remote brach
c. git add filename - to track files 
c. git branch - to list all the branches
c. git branch --show-current  - to see current branch
c. git branch branchname - to create new branch
c. git switch branchname - to move to specified branchname
c. git commit 
c. git branch - to create new branch 
c. git checkout branchname 
c. git checkout branchname; git commit   
c. git checkout -b [newbranchname] - create and checkout to new branch
c. git stash - temporarily saves changes to tracked files only 
c. git stash -u temporarily saves changes to tracked files and untracked files
c. git merge branchname -  first checkout to lagging branch using git switch branchname then merge it with ahead branch. this ensures changes
                         commit history of lagging branch is as it is and also new changes from other branch are added by merging
c. git rebase branchname -  first checkout to lagging branch using git switch branchname then 



if git not installed how to install for windows, ubuntu and Mac


How to configure github and 


git clone git@github.com:AjayPalleSwaero/fastapi.git

cd /path/to/your/directory

git status

git add .

git commit -m "Your commit message"

git push origin main



…or create a new repository on the command line
echo "# NREGA" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin git@github.com:Data-Insights-Unit/NREGA.git
git push -u origin main


…or push an existing repository from the command line
git remote add origin git@github.com:Data-Insights-Unit/NREGA.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main